README.md, before:

# MacDown 3000

[![Tests](https://github.com/schuyler/macdown3000/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/schuyler/macdown3000/actions)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/schuyler/macdown3000/total)](https://github.com/schuyler/macdown3000/releases)

MacDown 3000 is a free Markdown editor for macOS, available under the MIT License. It continues the legacy started by Chen Luo's [Mou](http://25.io/mou/) and carried forward by Tzu-ping Chung's [MacDown](https://macdown.uranusjr.com).

Visit the [project website](https://schuyler.github.io/macdown3000/) for more information, or download from the [releases](https://github.com/schuyler/macdown3000/releases) page.

## About MacDown 3000

In 2025, there's still a need for a modern, lightweight Markdown editor for macOS with live preview capabilities. MacDown 3000 is essentially *MacDown Continued*. The focus is on keeping MacDown up to date with modern Markdown best practices and maintaining compatibility with current library dependencies.

MacDown 3000 supports macOS 11.0 (Big Sur) and later on both Apple Silicon and Intel Macs.

This project honors the original intentions and contributions of both Mou and MacDown while ensuring that this valuable tool remains available and actively maintained for today's Mac users.

## Download & Install

**Version 3000.0.0** - Available Now

Download the latest release from the [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/schuyler/macdown3000/releases) page. Open the DMG file and drag MacDown 3000 to your Applications folder.

### System Requirements

- macOS 11.0 (Big Sur) or later
- Universal binary supporting both:
  - Apple Silicon (M-series processors)
  - Intel x86_64 processors

## Screenshot

![screenshot](assets/screenshot.png)

## Features

### Live Preview & Markdown Rendering

MacDown 3000 uses Hoedown to convert Markdown to HTML with live preview as you type. It supports:

- **Fenced code blocks** with language identifiers
- **GitHub Flavored Markdown** including tables, strikethrough (enabled by default), and autolinks
- **Task lists** for GFM-style checkboxes
- **Customizable rendering options** in Preferences

### Syntax Highlighting

Code blocks get syntax highlighting via Prism, supporting numerous programming and markup languages.

### Additional Rendering Tools

- **Math notation** using TeX-like syntax ($$...$$, \[...\], \(...\), and optional $...$ blocks)
- **Jekyll front-matter** for static site generators
- **Export to HTML or PDF** with customizable styling

### Editor Features

- **Auto-completion**: Automatic bracket and quote pairing, list continuation, and formatting shortcuts (customizable or disable)
- **Universal binary**: Built natively for both Apple Silicon (M-series) and Intel Macs
- **Modern Markdown**: Supports CommonMark and GitHub Flavored Markdown

## Development

### Requirements

If you wish to build MacDown 3000 yourself, you will need the following components/tools:

* macOS SDK (11.0 or later)
* Git
* [Bundler](http://bundler.io)

> Note: Old versions of CocoaPods are not supported. Please use Bundler to execute CocoaPods, or make sure your CocoaPods is later than shown in `Gemfile.lock`.

> Note: The Command Line Tools (CLT) should be unnecessary. If you failed to compile without it, please install CLT with
>
>     xcode-select --install
>
> and report back.

An appropriate SDK should be bundled with recent versions of Xcode.

### Environment Setup

After cloning the repository, run the following commands inside the repository root (directory containing this `README.md` file):

    git submodule update --init
    bundle install
    bundle exec pod install
    make -C Dependency/peg-markdown-highlight

and open `MacDown 3000.xcworkspace` in Xcode. The first command initialises the dependency submodule(s) used in MacDown 3000; the second one installs dependencies managed by CocoaPods.

Refer to the official guides of Git and CocoaPods if you need more instructions. If you run into build issues later on, try running the following commands to update dependencies:

    git submodule update
    bundle exec pod install

## License

MacDown 3000 is released under the terms of MIT License. You may find the content of the license [here](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT), or inside the `LICENSE` directory.

You may find full text of licenses about third-party components in the `LICENSE` directory, or the **About MacDown 3000** panel in the application.

The following editor themes and CSS files are extracted from [Mou](http://mouapp.com), courtesy of Chen Luo:

* Mou Fresh Air
* Mou Fresh Air+
* Mou Night
* Mou Night+
* Mou Paper
* Mou Paper+
* Tomorrow
* Tomorrow Blue
* Tomorrow+
* Writer
* Writer+
* Clearness
* Clearness Dark
* GitHub
* GitHub2

## Contributing & Support

MacDown 3000 is Free Software under the MIT License. Contributions are welcome!

Please [file an issue](https://github.com/schuyler/macdown3000/issues/new) on GitHub for bug reports, feature requests, or questions. **Please search first to make sure no-one has reported the same issue already** before opening one yourself.

MacDown 3000 depends on other open source projects, such as [Hoedown](https://github.com/hoedown/hoedown) for Markdown-to-HTML rendering, [Prism](http://prismjs.com) for syntax highlighting (in code blocks), and [PEG Markdown Highlight](https://github.com/ali-rantakari/peg-markdown-highlight) for editor highlighting. If you find problems when using those particular features, you can also consider reporting them directly to upstream projects as well as to MacDown 3000's issue tracker.

## Support MacDown 3000

Donations help cover the cost of the Apple developer license ($99/year). Any proceeds beyond our maintenance costs will be donated to the [Signal Foundation](https://signal.org/donate/).

[Donate via PayPal](https://www.paypal.com/donate/?business=22WG7CGNSSF8C&no_recurring=0&amount=5&item_name=Thank+you+for+supporting+MacDown+3000.+Once+our+maintenance+costs+are+covered%2C+further+donations+will+go+the+Signal+Foundation.&currency_code=USD)

Commit message:

Fix homebrew-cask workflow issues (#226)
## Summary
Fixes issues discovered when running the homebrew-cask workflow:

- Use `main` instead of `master` (homebrew-cask's default branch)
- Remove redundant `git remote add upstream` (`gh clone` handles this
for forks)
- Add git credential helper for HTTPS push authentication
- Add `verified:` parameter to URL (required when homepage differs from
download domain)
- Fix commit/PR title format to match homebrew conventions (`cask-name
version` style)
- Make workflow manual-only (remove automatic trigger on release
publish)
- Use `macdown-3000` token per homebrew naming conventions (hyphen
required)
- Add Homebrew installation instructions to README and homepage

Related to #49

## Test plan
- [ ] Merge and trigger workflow manually via Actions → "Update Homebrew
Cask"

README.md, after:

# MacDown 3000

[![Tests](https://github.com/schuyler/macdown3000/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/schuyler/macdown3000/actions)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/schuyler/macdown3000/total)](https://github.com/schuyler/macdown3000/releases)

MacDown 3000 is a free Markdown editor for macOS, available under the MIT License. It continues the legacy started by Chen Luo's [Mou](http://25.io/mou/) and carried forward by Tzu-ping Chung's [MacDown](https://macdown.uranusjr.com).

Visit the [project website](https://schuyler.github.io/macdown3000/) for more information, or download from the [releases](https://github.com/schuyler/macdown3000/releases) page.

## About MacDown 3000

In 2025, there's still a need for a modern, lightweight Markdown editor for macOS with live preview capabilities. MacDown 3000 is essentially *MacDown Continued*. The focus is on keeping MacDown up to date with modern Markdown best practices and maintaining compatibility with current library dependencies.

MacDown 3000 supports macOS 11.0 (Big Sur) and later on both Apple Silicon and Intel Macs.

This project honors the original intentions and contributions of both Mou and MacDown while ensuring that this valuable tool remains available and actively maintained for today's Mac users.

## Download & Install

**Version 3000.0.0** - Available Now

### Homebrew

The easiest way to install MacDown 3000 is with [Homebrew](https://brew.sh):

```bash
brew install --cask macdown-3000
```

### Manual Download

Download the latest release from the [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/schuyler/macdown3000/releases) page. Open the DMG file and drag MacDown 3000 to your Applications folder.

### System Requirements

- macOS 11.0 (Big Sur) or later
- Universal binary supporting both:
  - Apple Silicon (M-series processors)
  - Intel x86_64 processors

## Screenshot

![screenshot](assets/screenshot.png)

## Features

### Live Preview & Markdown Rendering

MacDown 3000 uses Hoedown to convert Markdown to HTML with live preview as you type. It supports:

- **Fenced code blocks** with language identifiers
- **GitHub Flavored Markdown** including tables, strikethrough (enabled by default), and autolinks
- **Task lists** for GFM-style checkboxes
- **Customizable rendering options** in Preferences

### Syntax Highlighting

Code blocks get syntax highlighting via Prism, supporting numerous programming and markup languages.

### Additional Rendering Tools

- **Math notation** using TeX-like syntax ($$...$$, \[...\], \(...\), and optional $...$ blocks)
- **Jekyll front-matter** for static site generators
- **Export to HTML or PDF** with customizable styling

### Editor Features

- **Auto-completion**: Automatic bracket and quote pairing, list continuation, and formatting shortcuts (customizable or disable)
- **Universal binary**: Built natively for both Apple Silicon (M-series) and Intel Macs
- **Modern Markdown**: Supports CommonMark and GitHub Flavored Markdown

## Development

### Requirements

If you wish to build MacDown 3000 yourself, you will need the following components/tools:

* macOS SDK (11.0 or later)
* Git
* [Bundler](http://bundler.io)

> Note: Old versions of CocoaPods are not supported. Please use Bundler to execute CocoaPods, or make sure your CocoaPods is later than shown in `Gemfile.lock`.

> Note: The Command Line Tools (CLT) should be unnecessary. If you failed to compile without it, please install CLT with
>
>     xcode-select --install
>
> and report back.

An appropriate SDK should be bundled with recent versions of Xcode.

### Environment Setup

After cloning the repository, run the following commands inside the repository root (directory containing this `README.md` file):

    git submodule update --init
    bundle install
    bundle exec pod install
    make -C Dependency/peg-markdown-highlight

and open `MacDown 3000.xcworkspace` in Xcode. The first command initialises the dependency submodule(s) used in MacDown 3000; the second one installs dependencies managed by CocoaPods.

Refer to the official guides of Git and CocoaPods if you need more instructions. If you run into build issues later on, try running the following commands to update dependencies:

    git submodule update
    bundle exec pod install

## License

MacDown 3000 is released under the terms of MIT License. You may find the content of the license [here](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT), or inside the `LICENSE` directory.

You may find full text of licenses about third-party components in the `LICENSE` directory, or the **About MacDown 3000** panel in the application.

The following editor themes and CSS files are extracted from [Mou](http://mouapp.com), courtesy of Chen Luo:

* Mou Fresh Air
* Mou Fresh Air+
* Mou Night
* Mou Night+
* Mou Paper
* Mou Paper+
* Tomorrow
* Tomorrow Blue
* Tomorrow+
* Writer
* Writer+
* Clearness
* Clearness Dark
* GitHub
* GitHub2

## Contributing & Support

MacDown 3000 is Free Software under the MIT License. Contributions are welcome!

Please [file an issue](https://github.com/schuyler/macdown3000/issues/new) on GitHub for bug reports, feature requests, or questions. **Please search first to make sure no-one has reported the same issue already** before opening one yourself.

MacDown 3000 depends on other open source projects, such as [Hoedown](https://github.com/hoedown/hoedown) for Markdown-to-HTML rendering, [Prism](http://prismjs.com) for syntax highlighting (in code blocks), and [PEG Markdown Highlight](https://github.com/ali-rantakari/peg-markdown-highlight) for editor highlighting. If you find problems when using those particular features, you can also consider reporting them directly to upstream projects as well as to MacDown 3000's issue tracker.

## Support MacDown 3000

Donations help cover the cost of the Apple developer license ($99/year). Any proceeds beyond our maintenance costs will be donated to the [Signal Foundation](https://signal.org/donate/).

[Donate via PayPal](https://www.paypal.com/donate/?business=22WG7CGNSSF8C&no_recurring=0&amount=5&item_name=Thank+you+for+supporting+MacDown+3000.+Once+our+maintenance+costs+are+covered%2C+further+donations+will+go+the+Signal+Foundation.&currency_code=USD)
