plans/infrastructure_evaluation.md, before:

# MacDown 3000 Infrastructure Evaluation

Comprehensive evaluation of build pipeline, developer tools, automated tests, documentation, and dependencies.

**Date:** 2025-11-18
**Evaluator:** Claude (macdown3000 project analysis)

---

## Executive Summary

MacDown 3000 has inherited a **solid foundation** from the original MacDown project with established CI/CD, testing infrastructure, and dependency management. However, several areas need modernization and improvement before a production release.

### Overall Grade: B- (Good foundation, needs modernization)

**Strengths:**
- ✅ Working GitHub Actions CI/CD pipeline
- ✅ Automated unit testing in place
- ✅ Dependabot configured for dependency monitoring
- ✅ Good contributor documentation (CONTRIBUTING.md)
- ✅ CocoaPods dependency management

**Critical Issues:**
- ⚠️ Outdated dependencies (CocoaPods 1.8.4 from 2020)
- ⚠️ Ruby 2.7 in CI (EOL, should use 3.x)
- ⚠️ Limited test coverage (~484 lines for 63 source files)
- ⚠️ No CHANGELOG.md
- ⚠️ README still references original MacDown project
- ⚠️ No code signing/release automation

---

## 1. Build Pipeline & CI/CD

### Current State: ✅ GOOD (with modernization needed)

**What Exists:**
- **GitHub Actions workflow** (`.github/workflows/test.yml`)
- Runs on: `macos-14` (macOS Sonoma)
- Triggers: Push/PR to `main` and `develop` branches
- Steps:
  1. Checkout with submodules
  2. Set up Ruby 2.7
  3. Install CocoaPods via Bundler
  4. Build peg-markdown-highlight dependency
  5. Run xcodebuild tests
  6. Upload test results on failure

**Strengths:**
- Modern runner (macos-14 = Sonoma)
- Submodule handling
- Test result artifact upload
- Uses actions/checkout@v4 (current)

**Issues:**
❌ **Ruby 2.7 is EOL** (end-of-life March 2023)
❌ **No build artifacts** generated for releases
❌ **No code signing** in pipeline
❌ **No release automation**
❌ **Travis CI reference** in Gemfile (deprecated, Travis moved to paid model)
❌ **No test coverage reporting**
❌ **No linting/static analysis**

### Recommendations:

#### HIGH PRIORITY
1. **Update Ruby to 3.x**
   ```yaml
   ruby-version: '3.2' # Latest stable
   ```

2. **Add build artifact generation**
   - Build release configuration
   - Generate .app bundle
   - Upload as artifact for testing

3. **Add release automation workflow**
   - Triggered on version tags (e.g., v1.0.0)
   - Build, sign, notarize
   - Create .dmg installer
   - Auto-create GitHub Release

#### MEDIUM PRIORITY
4. **Add linting workflow**
   - Use `swiftlint` for Swift code
   - Use `clang-format` for Objective-C

5. **Add code coverage reporting**
   - Use `xcov` or `slather`
   - Upload to Codecov

6. **Remove Travis CI dependency**
   - Delete `travis` gem from Gemfile
   - Only using GitHub Actions now

---

## 2. Automated Testing

### Current State: ⚠️ ADEQUATE (needs expansion)

**What Exists:**
- **6 test files** in `MacDownTests/`:
  - `MPUtilityTests.m` (33 lines) - JavaScript bridge tests
  - `MPColorTests.m` (38 lines) - Color conversion tests
  - `MPPreferencesTests.m` (48 lines) - Preferences tests
  - `MPHTMLTabularizeTests.m` (57 lines) - HTML table tests
  - `MPAssetTests.m` (121 lines) - Asset handling tests
  - `MPStringLookupTests.m` (187 lines) - String lookup tests

- **Total: ~484 lines of test code** for **63 source files**

**Test Coverage:** ~7.7 lines of tests per source file (VERY LOW)

**What's Tested:**
- ✅ JavaScript-to-ObjC bridge
- ✅ Color utilities
- ✅ Preferences system
- ✅ HTML tabularization
- ✅ Asset management
- ✅ String lookups

**What's NOT Tested:**
- ❌ Markdown rendering (CRITICAL)
- ❌ File I/O and autosave
- ❌ Editor functionality
- ❌ Preview pane rendering
- ❌ PDF/HTML export
- ❌ Mermaid diagram rendering
- ❌ LaTeX math rendering
- ❌ Most UI components

### Test Infrastructure:
- Uses **XCTest** framework (standard)
- Tests run via `xcodebuild test`
- CocoaPods dependency: `PAPreferences` for tests

### Issues:
❌ **Critically low test coverage** for a production app
❌ **No UI tests** (NSWindow, menu interactions, etc.)
❌ **No integration tests** (end-to-end workflows)
❌ **No performance tests** (rendering speed, memory usage)
❌ **No snapshot/visual regression tests** for preview rendering

### Recommendations:

#### CRITICAL PRIORITY
1. **Add Markdown rendering tests**
   - Test all syntax variations (GFM, code blocks, tables, etc.)
   - Test edge cases from bug reports
   - Golden file testing (input.md → expected.html)

2. **Add file I/O tests**
   - Test open, save, autosave
   - Test file permissions issues
   - Test recovery from crashes

#### HIGH PRIORITY
3. **Add UI tests using XCUITest**
   - Test main window creation
   - Test editor-preview sync
   - Test menu commands
   - Test keyboard shortcuts

4. **Add integration tests**
   - Test full document lifecycle
   - Test export workflows (PDF, HTML)
   - Test settings migration

#### MEDIUM PRIORITY
5. **Add performance benchmarks**
   - Rendering speed tests
   - Memory usage profiling
   - Startup time measurement

6. **Set up test coverage reporting**
   - Aim for 60%+ coverage for v1.0
   - Block PRs that decrease coverage

---

## 3. Documentation

### Current State: ⚠️ NEEDS UPDATE

**What Exists:**
- ✅ **README.md** - Comprehensive but outdated
- ✅ **CONTRIBUTING.md** - Excellent coding standards
- ✅ **LICENSE** file (MIT)
- ❌ **No CHANGELOG.md**
- ❌ **No API documentation**
- ❌ **No user guide**
- ❌ **No architecture docs**

### README.md Analysis:

**Good:**
- Clear installation instructions
- Screenshot included
- Development setup documented
- Requirements listed

**Outdated/Wrong:**
- Still references "MacDownApp/macdown" repo
- Download links point to original project
- Badges point to original repo
- References "uranusjr" (original author)
- Gitter chat (likely inactive)
- References Transifex for translation (may not apply)

**Missing:**
- MacDown 3000 branding
- What's new / differences from original
- Migration guide
- Apple Silicon support highlight
- Link to issues/discussions in THIS repo

### CONTRIBUTING.md Analysis:

**Excellent:**
- Clear coding style rules (80-column, Allman braces)
- Git workflow documented
- Commit message standards
- Pull request guidelines

**Needs:**
- Update repo references
- Add testing requirements
- Add CI/CD information

### Missing Documentation:

❌ **CHANGELOG.md** - Critical for tracking changes
❌ **Architecture guide** - How the app is structured
❌ **API docs** - For contributors
❌ **User documentation** - Help for end users
❌ **Troubleshooting guide**
❌ **Release process documentation**

### Recommendations:

#### CRITICAL PRIORITY
1. **Update README.md (#48 - already created)**
   - Rebrand as MacDown 3000
   - Update all links and references
   - Add "What's New" section
   - Highlight Apple Silicon support

2. **Create CHANGELOG.md**
   - Document all changes from original MacDown
   - Follow Keep a Changelog format
   - Start with v1.0.0 section

#### HIGH PRIORITY
3. **Create SECURITY.md**
   - How to report vulnerabilities
   - Security update policy

4. **Create User Guide**
   - Basic usage
   - Keyboard shortcuts
   - Preferences explanation
   - Export options

#### MEDIUM PRIORITY
5. **Create ARCHITECTURE.md**
   - Component overview
   - Data flow diagrams
   - Key classes and their roles
   - Extension points

6. **Generate API documentation**
   - Use HeaderDoc or Jazzy
   - Auto-publish to GitHub Pages

---

## 4. Dependencies

### Current State: ⚠️ OUTDATED (needs audit & updates)

### A. Ruby Dependencies (Gemfile)

**Current:**
```ruby
gem 'cocoapods', '~> 1.10'   # Released 2021
gem 'travis', '~> 1.10'       # DEPRECATED, Travis CI moved to paid
```

**Locked versions (Gemfile.lock):**
- CocoaPods 1.10.1 (2021)
- Bundler 1.17.3 (2018!) - VERY OLD
- Ruby 2.7.x assumed (EOL March 2023)

**Issues:**
❌ **Bundler 1.17.3 is 7 years old** (current is 2.5.x)
❌ **CocoaPods 1.10 is outdated** (current is 1.15.x)
❌ **Travis gem is useless** (Travis CI changed business model)
❌ **Many transitive dependencies outdated**

**Security Concerns:**
- activesupport 5.2.4.4 (2020) - likely has CVEs
- json 2.5.1 (2021) - outdated
- Many others from 2020-2021

### B. CocoaPods Dependencies (Podfile)

**Current Pods:**
1. **handlebars-objc** ~> 1.4 (2014)
   - Template engine for rendering
   - VERY old, check for alternatives

2. **hoedown** ~> 3.0.7 (2016)
   - Markdown parser (C library)
   - Last updated 2016, consider alternatives:
     - CommonMark (cmark)
     - Or keep if stable

3. **JJPluralForm** ~> 2.1
   - Localization helper
   - Status: OK

4. **LibYAML** ~> 0.1
   - YAML parsing
   - Check for updates

5. **M13OrderedDictionary** ~> 1.1
   - Ordered dictionary implementation
   - Consider NSDictionary with order preservation (modern macOS)

6. **MASPreferences** ~> 1.3
   - Preferences window framework
   - Last updated 2016, check alternatives

7. **Sparkle** ~> 1.18 (locked at 1.18.1)
   - Auto-update framework
   - OUTDATED: Current is 2.x
   - **Sparkle 2 has major improvements and security fixes**

8. **PAPreferences** ~> 0.4
   - Preferences helper
   - Status: Unknown, likely old

9. **GBCli** ~> 1.1
   - CLI tool framework
   - For macdown-cmd target

**Custom CocoaPods Source:**
```ruby
source 'https://github.com/MacDownApp/cocoapods-specs.git'
```
- Used for patched libraries (handlebars-objc, hoedown, LibYAML)
- May need to maintain these forks

**Issues:**
❌ **Sparkle 1.x is outdated** - Sparkle 2.x is recommended
❌ **Platform target: macOS 10.8** (!!) - Should be 11.0+ for Apple Silicon
❌ **Many pods from 2014-2016** - 8-10 years old!
❌ **Inhibit all warnings** - Hides potential issues

### C. NPM Dependencies (Tools/GitHub-style-generator)

**Current:**
```json
"node-sass": "^5.0.0"         // 2020, deprecated in favor of dart-sass
"primer-markdown": "^4.0.0"   // GitHub's markdown styles
```

**Issues:**
❌ **node-sass is deprecated** - Use sass (dart-sass) instead
❌ **primer-markdown 4.x is old** - Current is 6.x+
❌ **No package-lock.json** - Unstable builds

### D. Submodule Dependencies

**peg-markdown-highlight** - Built from source
- Used for syntax highlighting in editor
- Check if actively maintained

### E. Dependabot Configuration

**Current (`.github/dependabot.yml`):**
```yaml
- package-ecosystem: bundler    # ✅ Monitoring Ruby deps
- package-ecosystem: npm        # ✅ Monitoring npm deps
```

**Issues:**
- Dependabot is configured BUT
- No CocoaPods monitoring (Dependabot doesn't support it well)
- No submodule monitoring

**Ignored dependency:**
- y18n versions 4.0.1, 4.0.2 (security issue was fixed in 4.0.3+)

---

## 5. Developer Tools & Experience

### Current State: ⚠️ FUNCTIONAL BUT NEEDS POLISH

**What Works:**
✅ Standard Xcode workflow
✅ Clear setup instructions in README
✅ CocoaPods for dependency management
✅ Submodules for some dependencies
✅ Make-based builds for C dependencies

**Pain Points:**
❌ **Setup is multi-step and error-prone:**
   ```bash
   git submodule update --init
   bundle install
   bundle exec pod install
   make -C Dependency/peg-markdown-highlight
   ```
❌ **No setup script** - easy to miss a step
❌ **No .env or configuration templates**
❌ **No Docker/dev container option**
❌ **No pre-commit hooks** configured

### Recommendations:

1. **Create `setup.sh` script:**
   ```bash
   #!/bin/bash
   set -e
   echo "Setting up MacDown 3000 development environment..."
   git submodule update --init
   bundle install
   bundle exec pod install
   make -C Dependency/peg-markdown-highlight
   echo "✅ Setup complete! Open MacDown.xcworkspace in Xcode."
   ```

2. **Add pre-commit hooks:**
   - Format code with clang-format
   - Run SwiftLint
   - Check for trailing whitespace

3. **Document development workflows:**
   - How to run tests
   - How to debug
   - How to profile performance

---

## 6. Critical Issues Summary

### Must Fix Before v1.0.0:

1. **Update Ruby to 3.x in CI** - Ruby 2.7 is EOL
2. **Update Bundler to 2.x** - Security and features
3. **Audit all CocoaPods dependencies** - Many from 2014-2016
4. **Upgrade Sparkle to 2.x** - Security and auto-update improvements
5. **Update macOS platform target to 11.0+** - Drop 10.8 support
6. **Update README.md** - Fix all references to original project
7. **Create CHANGELOG.md** - Document version history
8. **Fix node-sass → sass** - node-sass is deprecated
9. **Add code signing to CI** - Can't release without it
10. **Expand test coverage** - Critical rendering tests missing

### Should Fix for v1.1+:

11. Consider replacing handlebars-objc (from 2014)
12. Evaluate hoedown alternatives (last update 2016)
13. Consider Sparkle alternatives or verify Sparkle 2 migration
14. Add UI/integration tests
15. Set up code coverage monitoring
16. Add performance benchmarks

---

## 7. Recommended Action Items

### Phase 1: Immediate Fixes (Before v1.0.0)

Create issues for:

1. **Update CI/CD Ruby to 3.2 and Bundler to 2.x**
   - Priority: HIGH
   - Effort: LOW
   - Impact: Security, modern tooling

2. **Audit and update CocoaPods dependencies**
   - Priority: CRITICAL
   - Effort: MEDIUM-HIGH
   - Impact: Security, stability, features
   - Specific: Sparkle 1.x → 2.x, update platform target

3. **Update npm dependencies (node-sass → sass)**
   - Priority: MEDIUM
   - Effort: LOW
   - Impact: Remove deprecation warnings

4. **Remove Travis CI dependency from Gemfile**
   - Priority: LOW
   - Effort: TRIVIAL
   - Impact: Clean up

5. **Add code signing and release automation to CI**
   - Priority: CRITICAL
   - Effort: HIGH
   - Impact: Can't release without this

6. **Add comprehensive Markdown rendering tests**
   - Priority: HIGH
   - Effort: MEDIUM
   - Impact: Prevent rendering regressions

7. **Create developer setup script (setup.sh)**
   - Priority: MEDIUM
   - Effort: LOW
   - Impact: Better developer experience

### Phase 2: Quality Improvements (v1.1+)

8. Add UI/integration tests
9. Set up code coverage monitoring
10. Add linting workflows (SwiftLint, clang-format)
11. Create architecture documentation
12. Generate API docs

---

## 8. Dependency Security Audit

### Known Security Concerns:

1. **Ruby Dependencies:**
   - activesupport 5.2.4.4 - CHECK CVE database
   - Multiple gems from 2020-2021 era

2. **CocoaPods:**
   - Sparkle 1.x has known issues fixed in 2.x
   - handlebars-objc (2014) - unlikely to be maintained

3. **NPM:**
   - node-sass has known vulnerabilities
   - y18n had CVE (ignored in dependabot config)

**Action Required:**
- Run `bundle audit` for Ruby
- Run `npm audit` for NPM packages
- Research Sparkle 1.x vulnerabilities
- Consider automated security scanning (Snyk, GitHub Security)

---

## 9. Comparison to Modern Standards

### Industry Standards for 2025:

| Area | Industry Standard | MacDown 3000 | Gap |
|------|------------------|--------------|-----|
| **CI/CD** | GitHub Actions | ✅ Has it | Ruby version outdated |
| **Testing** | 70%+ coverage | ~10% estimated | ⚠️ MAJOR GAP |
| **Dependencies** | <6mo old | 2-10 years old | ⚠️ MAJOR GAP |
| **Security Scanning** | Automated | Partial (Dependabot) | ⚠️ Gap |
| **Code Signing** | In CI/CD | ❌ None | ⚠️ CRITICAL GAP |
| **Release Automation** | Fully automated | ❌ Manual | ⚠️ Gap |
| **Documentation** | Comprehensive | Basic | ⚠️ Gap |
| **Code Coverage** | Tracked & reported | ❌ Not tracked | ⚠️ Gap |

---

## 10. Conclusion

MacDown 3000 has inherited a **solid but outdated foundation**. The project has:

✅ **Strengths:**
- Working CI/CD
- Some automated testing
- Good contributor guidelines
- Dependency monitoring configured

⚠️ **Critical Needs:**
- Dependency modernization (most urgent)
- Test coverage expansion
- Release automation
- Documentation updates
- Code signing setup

**Bottom Line:** The infrastructure is **functional enough to continue development** but needs **significant modernization before v1.0.0 release**. The good news is that none of the issues are blocking - they can all be addressed incrementally.

**Estimated Effort to Production-Ready:**
- 2-3 weeks of focused infrastructure work
- Most critical: Dependency updates and code signing
- Can be done in parallel with bug fixes

**Recommendation:** Address dependency updates and CI modernization NOW, as they impact everything else. Test coverage and documentation can improve iteratively.

Commit message:

Address issue #57: Setup Code Coverage Reporting in CI (#67)

plans/infrastructure_evaluation.md, after:

# MacDown 3000 Infrastructure Evaluation

Comprehensive evaluation of build pipeline, developer tools, automated tests, documentation, and dependencies.

**Date:** 2025-11-18
**Evaluator:** Claude (macdown3000 project analysis)

---

## Executive Summary

MacDown 3000 has inherited a **solid foundation** from the original MacDown project with established CI/CD, testing infrastructure, and dependency management. However, several areas need modernization and improvement before a production release.

### Overall Grade: B- (Good foundation, needs modernization)

**Strengths:**
- ✅ Working GitHub Actions CI/CD pipeline
- ✅ Automated unit testing in place
- ✅ Dependabot configured for dependency monitoring
- ✅ Good contributor documentation (CONTRIBUTING.md)
- ✅ CocoaPods dependency management

**Critical Issues:**
- ⚠️ Outdated dependencies (CocoaPods 1.8.4 from 2020)
- ✅ Ruby 2.7 in CI (EOL, should use 3.x) - Updated to Ruby 3.3
- ⚠️ Limited test coverage (~484 lines for 63 source files)
- ⚠️ No CHANGELOG.md
- ⚠️ README still references original MacDown project
- ⚠️ No code signing/release automation

---

## 1. Build Pipeline & CI/CD

### Current State: ✅ GOOD (with modernization needed)

**What Exists:**
- **GitHub Actions workflow** (`.github/workflows/test.yml`)
- Runs on: `macos-14` (macOS Sonoma)
- Triggers: Push/PR to `main` and `develop` branches
- Steps:
  1. Checkout with submodules
  2. Set up Ruby 3.3
  3. Install CocoaPods via Bundler
  4. Build peg-markdown-highlight dependency
  5. Run xcodebuild tests with code coverage
  6. Generate and upload coverage reports
  7. Post coverage comments to PRs
  8. Upload test results on failure

**Strengths:**
- Modern runner (macos-14 = Sonoma)
- Submodule handling
- Test result artifact upload
- Uses actions/checkout@v4 (current)

**Issues:**
❌ **Ruby 2.7 is EOL** (end-of-life March 2023) - Updated to Ruby 3.3
❌ **No build artifacts** generated for releases
❌ **No code signing** in pipeline
❌ **No release automation**
❌ **Travis CI reference** in Gemfile (deprecated, Travis moved to paid model)
✅ **Test coverage reporting** - Configured in CI
❌ **No linting/static analysis**

### Recommendations:

#### HIGH PRIORITY
1. **Update Ruby to 3.x**
   ```yaml
   ruby-version: '3.2' # Latest stable
   ```

2. **Add build artifact generation**
   - Build release configuration
   - Generate .app bundle
   - Upload as artifact for testing

3. **Add release automation workflow**
   - Triggered on version tags (e.g., v1.0.0)
   - Build, sign, notarize
   - Create .dmg installer
   - Auto-create GitHub Release

#### MEDIUM PRIORITY
4. **Add linting workflow**
   - Use `swiftlint` for Swift code
   - Use `clang-format` for Objective-C

5. ✅ **Add code coverage reporting** (completed)
   - Configured using `xcrun xccov`
   - Reports posted to PRs automatically

6. **Remove Travis CI dependency**
   - Delete `travis` gem from Gemfile
   - Only using GitHub Actions now

---

## 2. Automated Testing

### Current State: ⚠️ ADEQUATE (needs expansion)

**What Exists:**
- **6 test files** in `MacDownTests/`:
  - `MPUtilityTests.m` (33 lines) - JavaScript bridge tests
  - `MPColorTests.m` (38 lines) - Color conversion tests
  - `MPPreferencesTests.m` (48 lines) - Preferences tests
  - `MPHTMLTabularizeTests.m` (57 lines) - HTML table tests
  - `MPAssetTests.m` (121 lines) - Asset handling tests
  - `MPStringLookupTests.m` (187 lines) - String lookup tests

- **Total: ~484 lines of test code** for **63 source files**

**Test Coverage:** ~7.7 lines of tests per source file (VERY LOW)

**What's Tested:**
- ✅ JavaScript-to-ObjC bridge
- ✅ Color utilities
- ✅ Preferences system
- ✅ HTML tabularization
- ✅ Asset management
- ✅ String lookups

**What's NOT Tested:**
- ❌ Markdown rendering (CRITICAL)
- ❌ File I/O and autosave
- ❌ Editor functionality
- ❌ Preview pane rendering
- ❌ PDF/HTML export
- ❌ Mermaid diagram rendering
- ❌ LaTeX math rendering
- ❌ Most UI components

### Test Infrastructure:
- Uses **XCTest** framework (standard)
- Tests run via `xcodebuild test`
- CocoaPods dependency: `PAPreferences` for tests

### Issues:
❌ **Critically low test coverage** for a production app
❌ **No UI tests** (NSWindow, menu interactions, etc.)
❌ **No integration tests** (end-to-end workflows)
❌ **No performance tests** (rendering speed, memory usage)
❌ **No snapshot/visual regression tests** for preview rendering

### Recommendations:

#### CRITICAL PRIORITY
1. **Add Markdown rendering tests**
   - Test all syntax variations (GFM, code blocks, tables, etc.)
   - Test edge cases from bug reports
   - Golden file testing (input.md → expected.html)

2. **Add file I/O tests**
   - Test open, save, autosave
   - Test file permissions issues
   - Test recovery from crashes

#### HIGH PRIORITY
3. **Add UI tests using XCUITest**
   - Test main window creation
   - Test editor-preview sync
   - Test menu commands
   - Test keyboard shortcuts

4. **Add integration tests**
   - Test full document lifecycle
   - Test export workflows (PDF, HTML)
   - Test settings migration

#### MEDIUM PRIORITY
5. **Add performance benchmarks**
   - Rendering speed tests
   - Memory usage profiling
   - Startup time measurement

6. ✅ **Set up test coverage reporting** (completed)
   - Coverage reporting configured in CI
   - Future: Consider coverage threshold enforcement

---

## 3. Documentation

### Current State: ⚠️ NEEDS UPDATE

**What Exists:**
- ✅ **README.md** - Comprehensive but outdated
- ✅ **CONTRIBUTING.md** - Excellent coding standards
- ✅ **LICENSE** file (MIT)
- ❌ **No CHANGELOG.md**
- ❌ **No API documentation**
- ❌ **No user guide**
- ❌ **No architecture docs**

### README.md Analysis:

**Good:**
- Clear installation instructions
- Screenshot included
- Development setup documented
- Requirements listed

**Outdated/Wrong:**
- Still references "MacDownApp/macdown" repo
- Download links point to original project
- Badges point to original repo
- References "uranusjr" (original author)
- Gitter chat (likely inactive)
- References Transifex for translation (may not apply)

**Missing:**
- MacDown 3000 branding
- What's new / differences from original
- Migration guide
- Apple Silicon support highlight
- Link to issues/discussions in THIS repo

### CONTRIBUTING.md Analysis:

**Excellent:**
- Clear coding style rules (80-column, Allman braces)
- Git workflow documented
- Commit message standards
- Pull request guidelines

**Needs:**
- Update repo references
- Add testing requirements
- Add CI/CD information

### Missing Documentation:

❌ **CHANGELOG.md** - Critical for tracking changes
❌ **Architecture guide** - How the app is structured
❌ **API docs** - For contributors
❌ **User documentation** - Help for end users
❌ **Troubleshooting guide**
❌ **Release process documentation**

### Recommendations:

#### CRITICAL PRIORITY
1. **Update README.md (#48 - already created)**
   - Rebrand as MacDown 3000
   - Update all links and references
   - Add "What's New" section
   - Highlight Apple Silicon support

2. **Create CHANGELOG.md**
   - Document all changes from original MacDown
   - Follow Keep a Changelog format
   - Start with v1.0.0 section

#### HIGH PRIORITY
3. **Create SECURITY.md**
   - How to report vulnerabilities
   - Security update policy

4. **Create User Guide**
   - Basic usage
   - Keyboard shortcuts
   - Preferences explanation
   - Export options

#### MEDIUM PRIORITY
5. **Create ARCHITECTURE.md**
   - Component overview
   - Data flow diagrams
   - Key classes and their roles
   - Extension points

6. **Generate API documentation**
   - Use HeaderDoc or Jazzy
   - Auto-publish to GitHub Pages

---

## 4. Dependencies

### Current State: ⚠️ OUTDATED (needs audit & updates)

### A. Ruby Dependencies (Gemfile)

**Current:**
```ruby
gem 'cocoapods', '~> 1.10'   # Released 2021
gem 'travis', '~> 1.10'       # DEPRECATED, Travis CI moved to paid
```

**Locked versions (Gemfile.lock):**
- CocoaPods 1.10.1 (2021)
- Bundler 1.17.3 (2018!) - VERY OLD
- Ruby 3.3 configured in CI (EOL March 2023 issue resolved)

**Issues:**
❌ **Bundler 1.17.3 is 7 years old** (current is 2.5.x)
❌ **CocoaPods 1.10 is outdated** (current is 1.15.x)
❌ **Travis gem is useless** (Travis CI changed business model)
❌ **Many transitive dependencies outdated**

**Security Concerns:**
- activesupport 5.2.4.4 (2020) - likely has CVEs
- json 2.5.1 (2021) - outdated
- Many others from 2020-2021

### B. CocoaPods Dependencies (Podfile)

**Current Pods:**
1. **handlebars-objc** ~> 1.4 (2014)
   - Template engine for rendering
   - VERY old, check for alternatives

2. **hoedown** ~> 3.0.7 (2016)
   - Markdown parser (C library)
   - Last updated 2016, consider alternatives:
     - CommonMark (cmark)
     - Or keep if stable

3. **JJPluralForm** ~> 2.1
   - Localization helper
   - Status: OK

4. **LibYAML** ~> 0.1
   - YAML parsing
   - Check for updates

5. **M13OrderedDictionary** ~> 1.1
   - Ordered dictionary implementation
   - Consider NSDictionary with order preservation (modern macOS)

6. **MASPreferences** ~> 1.3
   - Preferences window framework
   - Last updated 2016, check alternatives

7. **Sparkle** ~> 1.18 (locked at 1.18.1)
   - Auto-update framework
   - OUTDATED: Current is 2.x
   - **Sparkle 2 has major improvements and security fixes**

8. **PAPreferences** ~> 0.4
   - Preferences helper
   - Status: Unknown, likely old

9. **GBCli** ~> 1.1
   - CLI tool framework
   - For macdown-cmd target

**Custom CocoaPods Source:**
```ruby
source 'https://github.com/MacDownApp/cocoapods-specs.git'
```
- Used for patched libraries (handlebars-objc, hoedown, LibYAML)
- May need to maintain these forks

**Issues:**
❌ **Sparkle 1.x is outdated** - Sparkle 2.x is recommended
❌ **Platform target: macOS 10.8** (!!) - Should be 11.0+ for Apple Silicon
❌ **Many pods from 2014-2016** - 8-10 years old!
❌ **Inhibit all warnings** - Hides potential issues

### C. NPM Dependencies (Tools/GitHub-style-generator)

**Current:**
```json
"node-sass": "^5.0.0"         // 2020, deprecated in favor of dart-sass
"primer-markdown": "^4.0.0"   // GitHub's markdown styles
```

**Issues:**
❌ **node-sass is deprecated** - Use sass (dart-sass) instead
❌ **primer-markdown 4.x is old** - Current is 6.x+
❌ **No package-lock.json** - Unstable builds

### D. Submodule Dependencies

**peg-markdown-highlight** - Built from source
- Used for syntax highlighting in editor
- Check if actively maintained

### E. Dependabot Configuration

**Current (`.github/dependabot.yml`):**
```yaml
- package-ecosystem: bundler    # ✅ Monitoring Ruby deps
- package-ecosystem: npm        # ✅ Monitoring npm deps
```

**Issues:**
- Dependabot is configured BUT
- No CocoaPods monitoring (Dependabot doesn't support it well)
- No submodule monitoring

**Ignored dependency:**
- y18n versions 4.0.1, 4.0.2 (security issue was fixed in 4.0.3+)

---

## 5. Developer Tools & Experience

### Current State: ⚠️ FUNCTIONAL BUT NEEDS POLISH

**What Works:**
✅ Standard Xcode workflow
✅ Clear setup instructions in README
✅ CocoaPods for dependency management
✅ Submodules for some dependencies
✅ Make-based builds for C dependencies

**Pain Points:**
❌ **Setup is multi-step and error-prone:**
   ```bash
   git submodule update --init
   bundle install
   bundle exec pod install
   make -C Dependency/peg-markdown-highlight
   ```
❌ **No setup script** - easy to miss a step
❌ **No .env or configuration templates**
❌ **No Docker/dev container option**
❌ **No pre-commit hooks** configured

### Recommendations:

1. **Create `setup.sh` script:**
   ```bash
   #!/bin/bash
   set -e
   echo "Setting up MacDown 3000 development environment..."
   git submodule update --init
   bundle install
   bundle exec pod install
   make -C Dependency/peg-markdown-highlight
   echo "✅ Setup complete! Open MacDown.xcworkspace in Xcode."
   ```

2. **Add pre-commit hooks:**
   - Format code with clang-format
   - Run SwiftLint
   - Check for trailing whitespace

3. **Document development workflows:**
   - How to run tests
   - How to debug
   - How to profile performance

---

## 6. Critical Issues Summary

### Must Fix Before v1.0.0:

1. ✅ **Update Ruby to 3.x in CI** - Ruby 2.7 is EOL (completed - using Ruby 3.3)
2. **Update Bundler to 2.x** - Security and features
3. **Audit all CocoaPods dependencies** - Many from 2014-2016
4. **Upgrade Sparkle to 2.x** - Security and auto-update improvements
5. **Update macOS platform target to 11.0+** - Drop 10.8 support
6. **Update README.md** - Fix all references to original project
7. **Create CHANGELOG.md** - Document version history
8. **Fix node-sass → sass** - node-sass is deprecated
9. **Add code signing to CI** - Can't release without it
10. **Expand test coverage** - Critical rendering tests missing

### Should Fix for v1.1+:

11. Consider replacing handlebars-objc (from 2014)
12. Evaluate hoedown alternatives (last update 2016)
13. Consider Sparkle alternatives or verify Sparkle 2 migration
14. Add UI/integration tests
15. ✅ Set up code coverage monitoring (completed)
16. Add performance benchmarks

---

## 7. Recommended Action Items

### Phase 1: Immediate Fixes (Before v1.0.0)

Create issues for:

1. ✅ **Update CI/CD Ruby to 3.2 and Bundler to 2.x** (completed - using Ruby 3.3)
   - Priority: HIGH
   - Effort: LOW
   - Impact: Security, modern tooling

2. **Audit and update CocoaPods dependencies**
   - Priority: CRITICAL
   - Effort: MEDIUM-HIGH
   - Impact: Security, stability, features
   - Specific: Sparkle 1.x → 2.x, update platform target

3. **Update npm dependencies (node-sass → sass)**
   - Priority: MEDIUM
   - Effort: LOW
   - Impact: Remove deprecation warnings

4. **Remove Travis CI dependency from Gemfile**
   - Priority: LOW
   - Effort: TRIVIAL
   - Impact: Clean up

5. **Add code signing and release automation to CI**
   - Priority: CRITICAL
   - Effort: HIGH
   - Impact: Can't release without this

6. **Add comprehensive Markdown rendering tests**
   - Priority: HIGH
   - Effort: MEDIUM
   - Impact: Prevent rendering regressions

7. **Create developer setup script (setup.sh)**
   - Priority: MEDIUM
   - Effort: LOW
   - Impact: Better developer experience

### Phase 2: Quality Improvements (v1.1+)

8. Add UI/integration tests
9. ✅ Set up code coverage monitoring (completed)
10. Add linting workflows (SwiftLint, clang-format)
11. Create architecture documentation
12. Generate API docs

---

## 8. Dependency Security Audit

### Known Security Concerns:

1. **Ruby Dependencies:**
   - activesupport 5.2.4.4 - CHECK CVE database
   - Multiple gems from 2020-2021 era

2. **CocoaPods:**
   - Sparkle 1.x has known issues fixed in 2.x
   - handlebars-objc (2014) - unlikely to be maintained

3. **NPM:**
   - node-sass has known vulnerabilities
   - y18n had CVE (ignored in dependabot config)

**Action Required:**
- Run `bundle audit` for Ruby
- Run `npm audit` for NPM packages
- Research Sparkle 1.x vulnerabilities
- Consider automated security scanning (Snyk, GitHub Security)

---

## 9. Comparison to Modern Standards

### Industry Standards for 2025:

| Area | Industry Standard | MacDown 3000 | Gap |
|------|------------------|--------------|-----|
| **CI/CD** | GitHub Actions | ✅ Has it | Ruby updated to 3.3 |
| **Testing** | 70%+ coverage | ~10% estimated | ⚠️ MAJOR GAP |
| **Dependencies** | <6mo old | 2-10 years old | ⚠️ MAJOR GAP |
| **Security Scanning** | Automated | Partial (Dependabot) | ⚠️ Gap |
| **Code Signing** | In CI/CD | ❌ None | ⚠️ CRITICAL GAP |
| **Release Automation** | Fully automated | ❌ Manual | ⚠️ Gap |
| **Documentation** | Comprehensive | Basic | ⚠️ Gap |
| **Code Coverage** | Tracked & reported | ✅ Configured | No gap |

---

## 10. Conclusion

MacDown 3000 has inherited a **solid but outdated foundation**. The project has:

✅ **Strengths:**
- Working CI/CD
- Some automated testing
- Good contributor guidelines
- Dependency monitoring configured

⚠️ **Critical Needs:**
- Dependency modernization (most urgent)
- Test coverage expansion
- Release automation
- Documentation updates
- Code signing setup

**Bottom Line:** The infrastructure is **functional enough to continue development** but needs **significant modernization before v1.0.0 release**. The good news is that none of the issues are blocking - they can all be addressed incrementally.

**Estimated Effort to Production-Ready:**
- 2-3 weeks of focused infrastructure work
- Most critical: Dependency updates and code signing
- Can be done in parallel with bug fixes

**Recommendation:** Address dependency updates and CI modernization NOW, as they impact everything else. Test coverage and documentation can improve iteratively.
